Most of you have heard about
the power of intention by now.
Some of you have even created visioning boards,
where you paste up images of the life you want to live.
Some of you have probably even
seen the results of your efforts.
But for many, the images on the dream board remain elusive.
Hale Dwoskin, author of "The Sedona Method,"
says that's because you must first release
the self-limiting chat from your mind,
so that it can really hear the messages
you're wanting it to carry out.
(smooth jazz keyboard)
So, Hale at this time your name is
more or less synonymous with The Sedona Method,
now obviously.
Yes.
But it didn't start that way.
There was a man who was very influential
in your life that really helped you
off the ground and started this.
Can you talk a little bit about how this came to be?
Sure, The Sedona Method was inspired
by a man named Lester Levenson,
who back in 1952, was sent home to die
from a second coronary.
But rather than give up, he decided
to go back to the lab within himself
and he started a process of self-inquiry.
Asking himself questions like, "Who am I?"
And, "What's this world?"
"What is happiness?"
"What's my relationship to this whole thing?"
He discovered that we all have this natural ability
to discharge, or let go of, the excess baggage
that we usually carry around.
When he discovered that, rather than
just using it to feel a little better,
since he had this death sentence from his doctors,
he decided to just keep going with it.
In just three months, he went from
a physical and emotional basket case, literally.
Not only did he have coronary disease,
but he had perforated ulcers, diverticulitis, migraines ...
I read the list of ailments, unbelievable.
He was a walking nightmare physically.
Yeah, and he had had four years of therapy
with an associate of Freud who said,
after four years of trying to help Lester,
"Lester, sorry some people can't be helped."
(laughing)
Okay.
So, he wasn't in great shape.
He went from that, in three months
of using what he had discovered,
into a state of profound peacefulness.
That he lived in another forty-two years,
after the doctors had given him just weeks to live.
And, what he discovered is that
he could teach this to others.
He discovered it by trial and error.
For about twenty years, he worked with people
on a one to one basis, and in small groups,
trying to help them discover what he had discovered.
Then in the early seventies, with the assistance
of some of the people who he'd been working with,
he developed it into a do it yourself system,
that we now call The Sedona Method.
I met Lester back in 1976, at a seminar I organized
for another seminar leader.
Lester came as his guest, I didn't even
notice him in the seminar, but Lester and I
and the seminar leader and one or two
other people went out to lunch.
I was so moved by what he was a living example of.
There was this presence of awareness, this silence,
this peace, this joy, this love,
that I could tell was unshakable.
I had seen a lot of teachers, both from
the east and the west before.
No one was really a living example.
They were still aspiring themselves.
That got my attention.
I decided to take the course, and before the course
was even over, I realized that this
is what I came here to dedicate my life to.
That's wonderful and you were a young man.
Oh, I was only twenty-two.
Exactly.
That's fabulous to have found your path,
your dharma, so early in life.
I've been very, very fortunate.
Because I got to work with Lester as my mentor
for eighteen years, and then before he died,
he passed all his copyrights to me
and asked me to continue getting out
what he had developed and continue
improving on it myself.
So that's what I've been doing.
You've been doing this professionally
for what, twenty-five, twenty-six years?
Well, I've been doing it since 1976.
Okay, so a long time.
Not all the time full-time professionally,
but it's been a full-time thing since '87.
Okay, so you know your stuff.
(laughing)
I hope so.
As you read through the book,
it becomes pretty clear that sadly,
our emotions, conscious and unconscious,
seem to be working against us,
and creating stress in our lives.
Clogging up the superhighway
of the joy of life, and so forth.
Some of the concepts that you talk about in there
at face value, when you first hear it, you think, "Hmm?"
And you're intrigued to go further, you think,
"What's that mean?"
One of them I was reading, this is toward
the early part of your book, it says,
when you really reach the core of people ...
We tend to think we're really messed up at the core.
But you're saying, when you reach the real core
what's there is peace.
Yes.
Everyone naturally, is the presence of awareness.
Is beingness, or peace, or bliss,
or whatever you want to call it.
There are many words to describe it.
That is already here, already now.
In fact, that can't go anywhere,
because it's everywhere present.
It's all knowing, it's actually all-knowingness.
And all power, and that's right at our core.
But what we do, is we look away from it.
We actually believe that the thoughts that we have,
and the feelings that we have, rather than
simply being objects, arising in this awareness
that we are, we believe that is us.
And because we believe we are these
simple objects that are arising
in this presence that we are,
we start identifying with them.
It actually starts at about age two and a half.
I was going to say, do you mind
doing the chronology for us a bit?
Oh, sure.
On how this develops
from the point of birth.
We all innately know it, but sometimes
it's nice to hear it in a crystallized form like this.
Sure.
Well, we come in and for the first couple
of years of life, we're simply living presence.
There's seeing, there's hearing, there's feeling,
there's reacting, it's all going on naturally,
but without this imagined separate person
taking credit for it.
And then what happens over time
our parents convince us that there's
somebody here separate from everybody else.
And it's done very simply, we say,
"Hale," we say, "Daddy," "Mommy."
"Daddy," "Mommy."
We do this thing with ourselves
where we're getting programmed
to believe that there's actually someone here.
Then, what happens after that,
we start relating to everything in the third person.
'Cause we still don't believe it.
So, it's "Hale's toy," and "Hale wants to do this."
Then at around age two or two and a half.
Terrible twos.
(laughing)
Right, the terrible twos.
It goes from, "Hale's toy," to "my toy."
Once it becomes my toy, at the same time
you start believing firmly in this belief
that there's a me and others.
There's a me and other than me.
But it's just a belief, it's brainwashing.
That brainwashing, that belief, is very transparent.
Even in this moment, there is only hearing,
seeing, feeling, being, it's all happening
effortlessly and spontaneously.
So what The Sedona Method allows you to do,
is start to let go of that self-hypnosis.
Start to let go of all the beliefs
that are causing us to look away from this
presence of awareness that we are.
It seems the word that
comes up frequently in all the questions is "Now."
Right.
You start with "now,"
and a lot of people must have initial issues
with this because they start to realize
they're never in the now.
"What do you mean how do I feel?"
"You mean this very second?"
(laughing)
Because it's always projected into
the future or past.
Yes but, the past is only a projection of the mind,
and so is the future.
There is only now.
You can only think about the past now.
You can only think about the future now.
You can only do anything about anything now.
You can't go into the past.
It's in our language, it's another mistake in our language.
You actually cannot go into the past
or go into the future.
Where you are is here, now.
And that's always the case.
No matter how lost you are in your stories.
No matter how much you've identified with your suffering.
Even that's always happening now.
But, our suffering, and the stories
we tell ourselves about our suffering,
makes us believe that there's this chronology.
And that we're the story, as opposed to
the presence of awareness, that is here, now.
And as you recognize that you're not the story,
you're not memory.
What you are is simply present here, now.
As you recognize it, it's very easy to simply live that.
What The Sedona Method does is, it shows you
how to let go of all those reference points.
How to let go of all those crystallizations.
How to let go of all those beliefs,
feelings and thoughts from the past.
That cause you to actually believe you're separate
and that you have to suffer.
And very effectively.
It's very elegant in its simplicity as well.
You have to do the work, but it's very achievable.
Yes.
Either through audio, or in person.
Or through the books.
Just on that subject now, this is a wee bit of a side,
then I wanna go right back where you were a second ago.
This whole subject of now.
With children in particular, one of the things
I noticed in my own self as I was going
through the educational system as a child,
was the total lack of presence in the now.
Right.
Bored, tune-out.
Right, right. (speech overlapping)
Unless it was science.
I loved science and art, hated everything else.
So the classes were interminable
and of course my grades were poor.
Right.
Except for the few that I loved.
I started sharing with my son, if you can be here now.
If you can be in that class now, listening,
tuned in to that teacher, the class time flies by,
the A's are automatic.
Everything seems to be automatic if you
truly show up in the present.
Right.
Well, it is already automatic.
The presence of awareness or the present moment,
is already always taking care of itself.
It doesn't need our help.
That's a lie.
Just dialing into it
and hanging there with it, instead of
allowing one's self to become distracted.
I understand, but you don't really need to dial into it.
Again, it just is.
(speech overlapping) It just exists.
The more any efforting to be is
a denial of that which you already are.
So everytime we're trying to get to here and now,
we're looking away.
Think about it.
So, it's the absence of not trying
to leave here and now.
Right, exactly.
Well, boredom comes from,
"Gee, I'd rather be doing something else."
Right.
I love this quote.
"Do what you do when you're doing it."
"And don't do what you're not doing,"
"when you're not doing it."
That's very good.
Very true, very useful.
(laughing)
Because what happens is, we rarely do that.
Most of us are so busy projecting into the future,
or regretting something from the past,
that we miss the presence that is here,
the presence that is now.
The problem with the educational system
is it's all future driven.
There's nothing about the educational system
that even pays attention to
what's actually happening here now.
It's all based on what was or what might be.
Right.
And it's all about information.
And information is easily or readily available.
We live in the internet age.
So, why are we trying to accumulate information?
That's dumb.
Right, exactly.
What we need to know is how to use the information,
how to access the information, and how to
really just be present with what is.
So that our intuitive knowingness and our
clear reason, can simply function naturally.
That's what's here.
The more you let go, using The Sedona Method,
what you do is you uncover your
intuitive knowing and your clear reason.
Because that's all right here, right now.
It already exists, if you don't
obscure it with past present.
Exactly.
Let's go back onto the track again.
One of the things you mention in this book,
you talk about, is that feelings actually lie.
Now a lot of us, a lot of different techniques
tell you, "You gotta get to the feelings."
"That's where the truth is."
You're saying, "Not necessarily."
"Feelings lie."
Well, actually I agree with them,
but that's only a starting point.
There are a lot of techniques out there
that try to get you to feel what you're feeling.
And if you're not even feeling what you're feeling,
then you're really lost.
(laughing)
So the first step in The Sedona Method,
is to actually notice what's here now.
The sensations, which we make up
into stories, which turn into feelings.
The pictures, and all the sounds,
which are just our thoughts.
That's what's here now.
That's all effortless.
It's simply arising by itself.
And you don't have to ...
That's just the beginning.
If you're really present with that,
and welcome it, it starts to dissolve.
That's one of the ways that we use The Sedona Method,
by simply welcoming whatever it is that's here now.
Most of us are resisting what's here now.
'Cause we're wanting it to be different than the way it is.
Or we feel it's too painful to bear
in the moment.
Right.
Don't want to open up that can of worms ...
Right, exactly.
But the pain in the moment is
always referencing the past.
Yes.
There's nothing unbearable, if you're fully present.
Or, let me rephrase that.
You are always fully presence,
but the more aware you are,
of this presence that you are,
the less identified you are with whatever is arising.
So, the body may be in pain, and so what?
Your life may not be going the way you choose, and so what?
When you're okay, whether it's going your way or not,
then you can do your best to have it
turn out the way you want.
But you're not attached to the outcome.
So, things naturally flow in a more positive direction
and the suffering, which comes from believing
there's a me, separate from everything else ...
It starts to dissolve.
Can you use the computer analogy,
you write about?
Sure.
And our emotions, 'cause I think
most people can understand that.
Visceral.
Yes it is, it's very ...
(laughing)
So, what happens in a computer
is that if you have too many programs
running at the same time, the computer
slows down and slows down
and slows down, until it finally crashes.
And what happens with a computer
is very similar to what happens with the mind.
Anything that's unresolved from the past.
Our past problems, our past regrets.
Anything that we're thinking about
that doesn't have to do with right now.
All that is robbing our processing ability, our memory.
It causes us to slow down and for most of us,
it eventually causes us to crash and burn.
But when you let go, what happens ...
Is that in essence,
closing out the programs?
Yes, you save the wisdom.
That's naturally there, because it is you.
Wisdom is your beingness.
It is your knowingness, so you can't lose the wisdom.
But all the suffering and all that power
that's being sucked into, all these things from the past.
All the energy, that should be just used to live life now,
which is going into all this anticipation and regret.
That dissolves and then you have this tremendous energy,
and tremendous awareness of what is,
to deal with what's here now.
And then you deal with it a lot more effectively.
You basically turn off all those programs
that are running in the background
and you simply deal with life spontaneously,
from your intuitive knowingness and your clear reason.
This doesn't just
effect your emotional state of being.
This effects our physical health as well.
This must be one of the keys as to what
Lester learned in his journey to healing.
Having these open programs and everything
(overlapping) clogging ...
(overlapping) Yes.
... the pathways.
Also effects very specifically,
certain aspects of our health.
In particular, can you talk a little bit about
how that works with the body?
Sure.
Our immune system functions naturally.
Everything about our body
is designed to be self-sustaining.
What happens is, when we're really stressed,
we're really upset, we start interfering with
our body's natural ability to heal.
Even though The Sedona Method has
never, ever attempted to treat, diagnose, cure
or even advise about any kind of physical condition,
we've seen people, even with long, "incurable,"
conditions, have them either drop away completely
or get much better.
The one thing that's universal with The Sedona Method,
is that anyone who applies it in the area of
health and well-being, finds that disease
is really two words.
Dis and ease.
So, you remove the dis.
You stop dissing yourself.
(laughing)
What happens is, you discover that when
you're not reacting to the symptoms,
the symptoms themselves aren't that meaningful,
aren't that important and don't cause suffering.
It's all the reaction we have to the symptoms.
It's all the projection we do around the symptoms.
"Oh, that means this is gonna happen,"
"or that's gonna happen."
That causes the suffering.
It's all the anticipation of the future ...
And then once you have a symptom,
you start having fear around it.
Exactly.
Then what happens?
Right, it all collapses in on itself
and it just gets worse.
With the The Sedona Method, you stop that process.
Instead of getting lost in the story about,
"I have this, or I have that."
Most of us have these designer labels
that we wear around when we've
been diagnosed with something.
Again, you can't ignore them.
Right.
But they're not good meditation points.
"I have fibromyalgia."
"I have post-traumatic stress disorder."
Right.
You're talking about that.
Yes, exactly.
But here's the thing, most people
live as though they are that.
They don't just have it.
(overlapping) Their designer label disease.
Yes, they are it.
"I'm a cancer patient."
"I am" these things.
And anything we add our "I am" to,
takes over our awareness.
The languaging here
is really important, isn't it?
The "I am," can you talk about that?
Well, sure.
"I am" is simply the closest the mind can come
to referring to the presence of awareness that you are.
It isn't it, but it's the closest it can come.
But what the mind generally does,
is project that outwards, into the world.
"I'm a man," "I'm a woman," "I'm sick,"
"I'm happy," "I'm sad," "I'm right," "I'm wrong,"
"I'm good, " "I'm bad", "I'm angry," "I'm sad."
All that is a way of looking away
from this presence of awareness that you are.
And is vesting your energy into
creating this illusion of separation.
Into creating a new program.
Right, exactly.
Not only creating a program, but getting lost in it.
Getting lost in it.
Yeah.
And people have attachments
like this, I mean they have attachments to their stories.
One of the people you write about in your book ...
It was interesting because it showed how this works.
Was the man who witnessed nine eleven.
Right.
Do you want to share?
That's anecdotal, but would you like to share that?
Sure, sure.
I was leading a ... we do seven day retreats
in Sedona, Arizona, and I was leading one.
I think it was only about six weeks, after nine eleven.
Interesting, it was the biggest one we've had
up until that point.
Despite nine eleven and all the people
being afraid of traveling, the retreat attendance
actually went up.
But any rate, one of the attendees at this retreat
was actually there at nine eleven.
He came out of the subway just as the
first plane hit the building.
He actually saw people jumping out of buildings.
People running out of their shoes.
The whole thing.
He was severely traumatized by the whole thing.
He knew this process, but he was a little stuck.
Because he was feeling better, but still when
he heard a loud noise or ...
All the constant repetition we were
going through at that time.
With the media.
Was very traumatic.
What he didn't see, and a lot of us don't see
when we're dealing with our problems.
There was a subtle specialness about him
because he was actually there.
He was actually witness to an event that
the entire world knew about.
There aren't many of those type of events.
Because of that, he had really identified
as being the special person who was at nine eleven.
When he recognized that he had been puffing himself up,
even though he was really traumatized.
But that puff is where he was hooked.
When he realized that he had been
identifying as someone who was special
and been at nine eleven, and he let that go.
All the trauma left.
I've seen that happen over and over
and over again with people.
People often will say they really
want to let go of a problem,
but because they've invested so much
time and energy working on it.
Because it's the way they're special and unique.
The way they see and identify themselves.
Exactly.
Because often they've invested so much
time and energy in it, that they
don't even know there's anything more than that.
Or beyond that.
They become hesitant, or afraid to let it go.
But when they let go of wanting to be
that special someone who wins.
Or that special someone who never can make money.
Or that special someone who can
never have the ideal relationship.
Once you let that go, it's really easy.
To discover what's actually here.
'Cause in this moment, there's always infinite possibility.
There's always the possibility of a positive creation.
That brings us to the subject of certainty.
That identification within themselves
creates a certain kind of certainty
about their outlook on life and who they are.
And you're saying that we have to
let go of the certainty in order to allow the true
intuitive aspect to have space to come in?
Oh, absolutely.
That certainty that we often have is artificial.
We're basing it on what was.
Then we don't realize why we're having
such a hard time dealing with what is.
There's a momentary sense of uncertainty
that comes from letting go of referencing the past.
But it's very momentary.
When you live as presence awareness,
when you're simply here now,
there's almost no uncertainty about anything.
You might not know the facts,
but you can always find out the facts.
But there is this inner knowingness,
this inner relaxation, this inner sense
that you can handle whatever life brings up.
Because there's no separation from the flow of living.
You are the flow of living.
Because of that, certainty, most of the time
isn't even an issue.
Right, and it's really a
smaller aspect of the mind speaking, isn't it?
Where the other is the greater mind
flowing through and beyond?
Well, actually the problem is that
the mind is closely aligned to this
presence awareness that we are.
It isn't the presence awareness, but it's closely aligned.
It's filtering it all the time.
It's labeling it, it's describing it.
It's dividing it up.
Because of that, it thinks it's special.
Think it knows something.
Likes power.
(laughing)
But all its power is artificial, it's all borrowed.
Right.
When you stop looking to the mind for the answer,
the answer is always already here, now.
That's liberating because we spent so much
of our time and energy, and also that goes back
to our educational system.
We've been trained to think that
the answer is in the mind.
But it isn't.
The mind is a wonderful tool,
but a terrible master.
This just popped to mind.
Another example you give in the book
was an engineer who was having
a hard time letting go of his knowingness,
his certainty, because his job depended on it.
Do you recall this particular ...
Oh, yes.
That's a really neat story.
You wanna share that ...
Sure.
Actually, what's interesting is
that most of us get lost in the mind
through this mechanism.
We wanna figure things out.
We wanna understand.
That isn't certainty, that's the lack of certainty.
We confuse it with certainty,
but it has nothing to do with it.
Right.
So when we're wanting to understand.
To figure out something, or get the answer.
We're looking away from the answer, in order to find it.
And most people think, that's the only way to do it.
But again, what happens when you let go
of wanting to understand.
When you let go of wanting to figure it out.
When you let go of looking away from the answer.
You discover the answer is already here.
It's already now.
It even works in practical things.
Years ago, in a class I talked about
this thing where if you let go of
wanting to figure it out, you'll get the answer.
There was someone who fought me the whole class,
because he was an engineer and he said,
"No, that's not possible."
What happened is, in between the two weekends of the course.
Years ago we taught it over two weekends,
now it's simply one weekend or an audio program.
In between these two weekends,
he was building a circuit board.
This was before they did it in computer,
they actually did it physically first.
Then they did it by computer ...
Right now they do it by computer.
Then afterwards they build it physically.
But there, they just built it physically.
So, without all the right parts,
he couldn't even test his theories.
What he did, he was almost done with a circuit board
that he needed to test.
He went to this room that was filled
from floor to ceiling with all of these little parts.
Little drawers.
(laughing)
Little drawers, right.
And bins.
What happened is, he went to the bin,
where it was supposed to be, and it was empty.
But he was on a deadline, he needed to finish
what he was doing and he got really frustrated.
He really wanted to figure out what to do.
And he said, "Oh, I'm gonna prove him wrong."
(laughing)
"I'm gonna let go of wanting to figure out"
"and I'm sure that's not going to make any difference."
So he let go of wanting to figure out where it might be
and then he was intuitively guided to walk around
the corner, reach up into another bin, which was
labeled for something else.
He had never done this before.
He reached in and the first part he touched
was a misplaced part that was the one he needed
for the circuit board.
Isn't that amazing?
And he was totally blown away,
because he was doing it to try to
prove the whole theory wrong.
Right.
What's interesting about this, is science itself.
I mean, he was obviously a man of science.
Right.
Science itself, the paradoxes.
Because it's dealing so much in their perceived certainties,
that often the real information simply can't flow through
in the educational system.
Even in the world of science and research.
Oh, absolutely.
Again, we're so used to looking away from the truth
to find the truth, that even in science it goes ...
Science is going much more rapidly today than it used to,
because we don't accept all assumptions as true
as much as we did.
Right.
But we still do it a lot.
And because of that, it slows things down.
If everyone always thought out of the box,
instead of in the box.
Not that you ignore the box.
You don't throw out your wisdom from the past.
But you don't assume that the answer's back there.
You realize the answer's always here now.
So, what is it here now that can provide the solution?
And, if you look, you'll find it.
And it works in every area of your life.
There's ... just a funny aside too.
One of the reasons that we get stuck in life,
is because we're wanting to figure out our problems.
Wanting to understand what to do about them.
Why they're there.
A lot of therapy actually, goes
down that path unsuccessfully.
But, one of the things I discovered
is that the only reason we want to
figure out or understand a problem
is because we're planning to have it again.
Exactly.
That's very true.
(laughing)
Otherwise, why bother, it's history.
Exactly.
This is interesting because
when you're talking about that,
when you're talking about science
and the way we've been doing things.
The thing that seems, we all have to overcome
in one way or another, is the resistance our own
beings put up, throw up,
when we try to make these changes.
Can you talk about the essence of that resistance,
as you've seen it over the last twenty, thirty years
in your practice.
Well, the essence of resistance is thinking
that we need to find something away from here and now.
And because of that, we resist change.
And change is on the surface of beingness,
on the surface of what's unfolding here is natural.
Everything is changing all the time,
except that which you are.
That never changes.
When we try to impose that changelessness
that we are, on the ever-changing, it's hell.
(laughing)
We go, "No, this river needs to flow this way."
"No, the earth needs to turn a little faster."
That's us, trying to control time.
"This needs to change, that needs to change."
"I wish I could have changed what happened ten years ago."
All of that, is resistance to what is.
That resistance to what is, obstructs
our being able to function naturally.
However, resistance is just a feeling.
It's not special, it's not meaningful.
It's not important.
With The Sedona Method, you learn
to simply let it go, just like any other feeling.
And when you let go of the feeling of resistance,
you naturally find that you're simply flowing
with the ever-changing unfolding of life.
And you're responding appropriately from moment to moment.
And then the intuition can come in.
Then you can allow yourself to start
utilizing the magic that is there in the moment.
Exactly.
You have four areas that you say
are the four big wants that everybody deals with.
We don't have to go in great detail,
but maybe if you can touch on
each one of these big wants.
Which actually end up impeding us often,
from what we're truly desiring.
Sure.
What happens is, after we start to think
there is a me and other than me, we go deeper.
One of the first things that happens
is we feel the sense of separation.
And the sense of separation is uncomfortable.
Because we want to get back to that
sense of oneness we had just before.
We've started really buying in to this
sense of me and other than me.
Then a little deeper than that,
is this sense of "I'm this body."
And because I'm this body, not only
am I a person, but I am this person only.
This body, then everything becomes a threat.
A little closer to the surface is,
there's this feeling that if love is
somehow outside of me, and I have to go find it.
Yeah.
Also, if I get enough love, I'll be safe.
Then, mostly at the closest to the surface,
is this belief that things aren't right with the world.
I need to fix it, I need to change it.
I need to manipulate it.
As you see through all these beliefs.
As you start to dissolve them in your awareness.
That helps you really be present with what is present
from moment to moment.
Now this brings us to the big one.
The ability to manifest our lives properly.
Sure
The whole notion of "The Secret."
It's very interesting, because while you do
need to have clear intention, at the same time
we talk about this acceptance and letting go.
How does the dance ...
Referring to "The Secret," because a lot of
the viewers that are watching you right now
a lot of our viewers have already seen that.
So, let's talk about how this all works together then.
Sure.
"The Secret" talks about the law of attraction.
What you put out, comes back to you.
On the level of the appearance that's absolutely true.
The problem is, how most people try to approach
manifestation, is simply by putting a happy face on top.
Right.
They feel scarce or they feel lonely.
They feel sick, all these things are inside.
And they're manifesting in their lives.
What they do, is they try to pretend,
or they try to imagine, or they try to affirm
that it's not true, but the mind
just goes to war with that.
And it takes a tremendous amount of effort
and suffering and struggle to try
to make a change that way.
There are miracle stories that are
happening from "The Secret,"
but those are few and far between.
Because, how most people live life,
you can't simply put a happy face on it
and expect everything to change.
'Cause we're manifesting the sum total of our thinkingness.
Ninety-nine percent of our thinkingness
and feelingness is subconscious.
Is below our conscious awareness.
Our thoughts, our feelings, and our behavior
are being motivated by this accumulation.
So, what happens with The Sedona Method
is we show you how to uncover this natural,
creative power that you are.
This natural knowingness that you are.
This natural presence that you are.
Then, just a mere effortless thought ...
(Interviewer coughing)
Excuse me.
No, that's okay.
... manifests either very quickly or immediately.
Again, thoughts are more on the surface than feelings.
Most scientists believe for some reason ...
I don't know, they must have walked around
with one of these clickers, I don't know
how they figured it out.
But we have fifty or sixty thousand thoughts a day.
If you try to control, all those
fifty or sixty thousand thoughts a day,
that's a forever job.
Plus, then you're having thoughts about the thoughts.
You're actually just increasing the accumulation
and you're still walking away from the answer.
(Interviewer laughing)
True.
And you can wake up ...
Everyone's heard this expression.
I woke up on the wrong side of the bed.
You have that same feeling the whole day.
For a lot of people, it's the same day ...
They woke up on the wrong side of their life.
(laughing)
So the feelings are coloring the thoughts every moment.
When you let go of the feelings,
your thoughts naturally get more positive,
without any effort.
In fact, one-third, over one-third
of the teachers in "The Secret,"
are using this process.
The Sedona Method?
The Sedona Method.
It makes total sense.
Yes.
Because, I think
most of the people that you run into,
"Oh, I saw "The Secret," I'm doing my vision board."
There lives may be absolutely miserable,
but they're going to throw up all the pretty images
from the magazines on the vision board.
I'm not dissing that, I've done it for about
twenty years myself, and manifested incredible things.
But, what you say, is very clear.
You have to also be clear within yourself,
in order for that to start.
Right.
Well, you don't have to.
You can do the vision board,
but it will take a really long time
and add a lot of extra suffering and stress, etc. to it.
Right.
All the techniques for visualization ...
And then people give up.
Right, exactly.
Exactly.
Because it adds so much extra work and time to it.
Most people never see it through.
But what happens is, when you use The Sedona Method,
even though time is a concept, you collapse time.
Because you're letting go of all the inner obstructions.
When you let go of all the inner obstructions,
manifestation becomes incredibly simple and easy, and fun.
Part of the power of The Sedona Method,
is we show you how to set your
clear goals and intentions.
And then let go of all the thoughts
and feelings to the contrary.
Because of that, it just simply ...
It's like a vacuum, it pulls it into your awareness.
It's beautiful.
I think this whole area, because "The Secret"
has been so, sweeping around through 2006, certainly.
And into 2007, around the internet.
This is probably the easiest place to address
the subject of manifestation, and on that note,
is there anything final about our ability
to create the kind of life we want,
utilizing The Sedona Method.
And we're gonna make sure everybody
knows how to get involved with that, in just a little bit.
Any final thoughts, wrapping this all together?
Well, first of all, remember that
feelings are just feelings.
They're not facts, and they're not you,
and you can let them go.
One of the important pieces of manifestation
is not just thinking it or seeing it, but feeling it.
That's a very big part of "The Secret."
But the only way that I've found,
where you can really maintain that positive feeling
about your goals and aspirations,
is by letting go.
If you try to force yourself to feel particular way,
you just get more uncomfortable.
You go to war with yourself.
If you try to think a particular way,
you just go to war with yourself.
But if you let go of the suffering,
if you let go of the doubt,
if you let go of the fear,
if you let go of all the feelings
that are telling you can't have what it is you choose.
Then manifestation becomes really easy.
Really easy.
At the same time, part of our goals process
is about getting to what Lester Levenson called
the "hootless state."
Right, I was going to ask you about that.
Hootlessness.
(laughing)
Well it's a made up word.
Right, exactly.
But what he meant by that is this,
a lot of people tell you you have to be
really passionate about your goals.
You really have to want them intently.
But in my experience, want equates to lack.
Right.
Anytime you want something,
you feel like you don't have it.
You have to go outside of yourself to get it.
But when you release with The Sedona Method,
on any goal, you get to the place where
you're okay, whether or not you manifest it.
And two things happen.
In most cases, that makes it much easier to manifest.
The other thing that may happen though,
is you may discover that the goal
you were going for, wasn't really your goal.
It was you husband's goal, your wife's goal,
society's goal, your company's goal.
All these other outside forces.
Had nothing to do with what you really wanted.
So, what you may do, is actually discover
as you let go, that that isn't your goal.
Your goal is something much more right for you.
It clears out the uncertainty.
You get to a point where you know
you can create whatever you want,
but you don't always have to.
It's okay whether you create it or not.
What's even more pleasurable about
the whole experience is that most people
experience a tremendous amount of suffering,
in relationship to goals.
True.
I mean ... I even just say goals in our courses
and a lot of people go ...
(clenched groaning)
"Don't make me have to set
more goals to fail.
(laughing)
Right.
'Cause most people fail at them.
Because the traditional tools for achieving goals
are action, which is great, but without
combining it with releasing, it doesn't work as well.
Or visualization, or affirmation, and both of those
by themselves, are not as effective as
combining them with letting go.
One of the wonderful things about using The Sedona Method
to get what you want, to focus on goals,
is the process itself is extremely pleasurable.
That place where you're hootless about
whether you get it or not, is exquisite.
You're more likely to get what you want,
but most people suffer before, during, and even after,
they've achieved their goals.
Because, if you get your goal through effort,
if you get your goal through forcing and suffering,
you're already losing it as soon as you get it.
Because you feel like you have to protect it,
you're not sure of yourself.
You know it was so hard to create,
you don't know if you can create it again.
On and on and on.
But when you're okay, whether you create it or not,
then some goals happen and some goals don't.
But you feel whole, complete, and enough
within yourself, throughout the whole process.
Well that sums it up beautifully.
Thank you so much for taking some time
to talk with us today.
I know it's going to do a lot of good
for a lot of us watching this.
We'll go ahead and put your website up.
Great.
So everyone can see
how to get a hold of you.
And how often do you have ...
I assume you have people conducting workshops
all over the world right now?
Yes.
We have workshops all over the world.
Then we have an audio program.
Most people learn The Sedona Method
either through The Sedona Method book
or through our audio program.
Actually, most people learn it through the audio program.
The audio program, really takes you step by step
through the process, so that you can
start to incorporate this into your life.
And you don't wanna rush this, right?
No, there's no rush.
(laughing)
It's not something where you
read the book and you think I had a weekend,
I read that,that was great.
Right.
It's not that kind of experience.
No, actually one of the unique things
about The Sedona Method, compared to
other self-help tools, is the results
actually increase over time.
Years ago, we did a study with the MONY Corporation,
Mutual of New York, and the field underwriters
that took The Sedona Method, outperformed
the control group by thirty-three percent.
The results went up by one-third, which is huge in sales.
But even more impressive was, it was broken down
into two three-month study groups.
The first three months,
the results went up twenty-two percent.
The second three months,
the results went up forty-four percent.
The average was thirty-three percent,
but their results actually went up over time.
Again, because we're showing you
how to change yourself from the inside out.
Most self-help is about trying to change yourself
from the outside in and it doesn't last.
(smooth jazz keyboard)
As Hale said, about a third
of the people seen in the film, "The Secret,"
use this direct and simple method
of releasing the blocks in our consciousness.
So if you decide to give it a try,
you'll be in good company.
Meanwhile, if you're working on releasing
negative self-talk, you might also enjoy
the work of Byron Katie and Robert Tennyson Stevens,
both of whom are on this site.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(smooth jazz outro)